# Introduction
The transmission network has grown significantly from the late 19th century catering to the industrial and consumer demands. With such a complex network it is important to deliver power in the most economical way. The Power system can consist of several generating units at different location which deliver power through the transmission line to the demand centers. Since the cost of generation varies for each generators, for reliable operation of power system the generators should dispatch in a economic manner at the lowest possible cost subjected to various constrains like the operation, transmission, reliability etc. Historically ELD problem was used with the burning the fossil fuels in a economic way to maximize the generation of a plant. Nowadays ELD problem is used for minimizing the transmission line losses, minimize the emission from plant along with minimizing the fuel cost.
With the penetration of renewables into the power system, it is important to find ELD with renewables. This project analyzes the ELD problem with an integrated solar plant to the power system. Many algorithms have been developed to solve the problem of ELD. In this project we have used Genetic algorithm to solve the ELD problem.

## Problem Statement
The presence of renewable energy alternatives to conventional energy has magnified over the past few years. Wind and solar are the most utilized renewable energy resource. Focusing on the solar PV system, solar power has low uncertainty but are highly variable sources of power generation. The output from a single solar PV panel is variable especially in the case of a solar plant without any battery back-up as the cost of the power plant would increase with the addition of batteries. With the huge penetration of varying power sources such as PV systems, thermal units require an operation pattern which can respond to the varying demand.
This project aims at making a case study on the effect of renewables in the economic load dispatch. This system contains a PV plant integrated with the conventional sources of energy. This study is done via Matlab simulations to determine the optimal conditions of power dispatch to minimize the cost of generation subject to constraints.

## What is Genetic Algorithm?
Genetic Algorithm(GA) is a search and optimization technique based on the principle of natural selection and genetics. GA evaluates the population based on their fitness. Based on a selection criteria the fitness of the population is maximized to a state. The average fitness of the population is increased with each generation. This method was developed by John Holland(1975) and finally popularized by his student David Goldberg .The work by DeJong(1975) showed the usefulness of GA in optimization. To introduce some of the biological terminologies involved in the project we need to understand the structure of living organism. All living organisms are made of cells. A cell contains one or more chromosomes which act as a blue print of an organism . The chromosomes are represented typically as a string of bits of 1 and 0 . The chromosome can be divided into genes which gives the traits of an organism. The main operators in GA are selection, crossover and mutation.
4
Selection: The fitter chromosomes are selected based on ranking of their fitness. Based on the selection criteria, these chromosomes undergo crossover and mutation to produce new off springs
Crossover: The chromosomes after selection undergo crossover randomly with the fitter population. During crossover the genes in chromosomes are exchanged to produce new offspring.
Mutation: The chromosomes after crossover may undergo random flip of one of the bits in the chromosome to produce a new trait in the organism [3].
